Research Projects
================

#### Soil carbon and water dynamics

Soil moisture is an important driver of soil carbon fluxes, and
drying-rewetting events influence C stabilization in soils. Drought
events are increasing in intensity and frequency, and it is therefore
crucial to understand soil C fate and transport as a soil dries and is
subsequently rewet.

-----

#### Nitrogen saturation in northeastern USA forests

Human activities increased the amount of reactive N in the environment
in the twentiest century, and temperate forests have been showing signs
of N enrichment and saturation. The Bear Brook Watershed in Maine, USA
(BBWM) is one of the longest running forested watershed manipulations
studying the effects of chronic nitrogen and sulfur enrichment and
environmental change on forest ecosystem processes. Over the last three
decades, research has been conducted on soil, stream, and vegetation
response to the manipulation and ambient changes in the physical and
chemical environment. Current research is focusing on understanding the
biotic and abiotic character of recovery to acidification in a changing
climate.

-----

#### Changing winters in the northeastern USA

Global environmental change in northeastern North America is resulting
in warmer winters with reduced snow accumulation. Soils under a thin
snowpack are more likely to experience freezeâ€“thaw cycles, disrupting
carbon and nitrogen transformations. There has also been a significant
decline in the duration of winter, the number of snow-covered days, and
the timing of snowmelt. These projected changes in winter dynamics will
likely have significant effects on soil biogeochemical processes, which
extend beyond the snow- melt period.
